README.md, before:

# This project is still under development. Only the core wiring for 7 seg is being experimented.

## A simple clock with Chinese weekday displaying and Wi-Fi automatic time synchronizition

## Features

- HH:MM:SS 7 segment time displaying

- mm/dd 7 segment date displaying

- Chinese weekday 8x8 matrix displayinɢ (一~日)

- Colon displaying by turn the 7 segment display upside down
  With hardware rewiring, the programming would be easier

- Wi-Fi connection provide by onboard Wi-Fi hardware in Raspberry Pi Pico 2 W

- Internet automatic time synchronizition

- DS*1708(To be correct)* time counting chip to prevent when internet isn't availble for a period of time, or maybe, forever

- Color switching with AM/PM
  Thanks to double-colored 7 segment display allowing me to do it
  *The 7 segment display I'm using is a special double color common anode display with special wiring. For detail, please check out the [pinout pictures folder](./PinoutPics).

## BOM (Hardware I'm using)

| Hardware                                      | Amount | Usage / Notes                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Core & Display**                            |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Raspberry Pi Pico 2 W                         | 1      | The brain of the project                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Double colored 7 segment display              | 10     | 2.1-inch Common Anode. 6 (time) + 4 (date).                                                                                                                                               |
| 8x8 matrix display                            | 1      | Chinese weekday displayment                                                                                                                                                               |
| 1*10 segment bar display                      | 1      | For debuging<br/>Referred to as "debug bar" in everywhere in this project                                                                                                                 |
| 5V 3A power supply                            | 1      | Well, its name is power supply                                                                                                                                                            |
| **ICs**                                       |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| TPIC6B595                                     | 2      | Segment displaying<br/>1 for hour and minutes + 1 for second and date, because the usage of 74HC595 below. For detail, check out the [schematic](./Schematic/wDark/DigitalWiFiClock.svg). |
| 74HC595*                                      | 2      | For common anode grounding selection,<br/>or maybe should say for controlling UDN2981A below                                                                                              |
| UDN2981A*                                     | 2      | A buffer for common anode sourcing,<br/>or can maybe be explained as to control the color of the 7 segments and whether those should be lighted from the signal 74HC595 gave              |
| MAX7219                                       | 1      | Matrix display driving<br/>!!!***TODO: Confirm the pin usage of ISET pin***!!!                                                                                                            |
| *Logic level shifter* **                      | 1      | *4* channel 3.3V to 5V logic level shifter for TPIC6B595 and MAX7219 *to be confirmed*                                                                                                    |
| **Passives**                                  |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 10Ω resistor array                            | 4      | Independent type (B-type) (4 resistors per SIP)<br/>2 for the first 4 segment displays in the time section, and 2 for last 2 segment displays in the time section and the date section    |
| 300Ω resistor array                           | 3      | Independent type (B-type) (4 resistors per SIP)<br/>For the debug bar eariler said<br/>Feel free to use normal 300Ω resistor ×10. I use array simply because I had it on hand.            |
| 130Ω resistor                                 | 2      | For DPs in [2 sets](./Schematic/wDark/DigitalWiFiClock.svg) of segment displays                                                                                                           |
| ***TODO: 10k?*** Ω resistor                   | 1      | For the ISET pin in MAX7219 to determine the current for matrix display                                                                                                                   |
| ***TODO: 10~100*** μF electrolytic capacitors | 1      | Connect it to the power supply                                                                                                                                                            |
| 0.1μF ceramic capacitors                      | 8      | Connect it to the power source of Raspberry Pi Pico 2 W and every ICs                                                                                                                     |
| **Production Materials**                      |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 20x30cm Double-sided FR-4 Perfboard           | 1      | The main carrier.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| DIP-16 IC Sockets                             | 2      | 74HC595                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| DIP-18 IC Sockets                             | 2      | UDN2981A                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DIP-20 IC Sockets                             | 2      | TPIC6B595                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DIP-24 IC Sockets                             | 1      | MAX7219                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 0.5mm tinned copper wire                      |        | Routing                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 0.35mm solid core wire                        |        | Routing and jumps<br/>Used simply because I had it on hand. Feel free to use 0.5mm ones, and that would be even better                                                                    |
| 0.8MM tinned copper wire                      |        | Main power supply                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Solder                                        |        | Why don't you need?                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Soldering iron                                | 1      | Why don't you need?<br/>BTW I'm using a FNISRI HS-01 and setted it to 370°C                                                                                                               |

*74HC595 --Signal--> UDN2981A --Power--> The common node that needs to be controlled
** TODO: To be determine the actual model

---

#### Wrote with MicroPython

Normally I'm a C++ fan, but I want to develop it quickly, and trying MicroPython out of curiosity

---

Not sure if you're concern about it or not, but everything is made by Taiwanese, not Chinese. Feel free to use it ^_<

Commit message:

Update README to reflect legacy status and project direction

README.md, after:

# This is a legacy archive

Theoretically this version should work well, but the normal seven segment display is too dark for my usage, so I'm going to start making and printing PCB and make segment displays and matrix display by myself.

## This project is still under development. Only the core wiring for 7 seg is being experimented

## A simple clock with Chinese weekday displaying and Wi-Fi automatic time synchronizition

## Features

- HH:MM:SS 7 segment time displaying

- mm/dd 7 segment date displaying

- Chinese weekday 8x8 matrix displayinɢ (一~日)

- Colon displaying by turn the 7 segment display upside down
  With hardware rewiring, the programming would be easier

- Wi-Fi connection provide by onboard Wi-Fi hardware in Raspberry Pi Pico 2 W

- Internet automatic time synchronizition

- DS*1708(To be correct)* time counting chip to prevent when internet isn't availble for a period of time, or maybe, forever

- Color switching with AM/PM
  Thanks to double-colored 7 segment display allowing me to do it
  *The 7 segment display I'm using is a special double color common anode display with special wiring. For detail, please check out the [pinout pictures folder](./PinoutPics).

## BOM (Hardware I'm using)

| Hardware                                      | Amount | Usage / Notes                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Core & Display**                            |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Raspberry Pi Pico 2 W                         | 1      | The brain of the project                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Double colored 7 segment display              | 10     | 2.1-inch Common Anode. 6 (time) + 4 (date).                                                                                                                                               |
| 8x8 matrix display                            | 1      | Chinese weekday displayment                                                                                                                                                               |
| 1*10 segment bar display                      | 1      | For debuging<br/>Referred to as "debug bar" in everywhere in this project                                                                                                                 |
| 5V 3A power supply                            | 1      | Well, its name is power supply                                                                                                                                                            |
| **ICs**                                       |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| TPIC6B595                                     | 2      | Segment displaying<br/>1 for hour and minutes + 1 for second and date, because the usage of 74HC595 below. For detail, check out the [schematic](./Schematic/wDark/DigitalWiFiClock.svg). |
| 74HC595*                                      | 2      | For common anode grounding selection,<br/>or maybe should say for controlling UDN2981A below                                                                                              |
| UDN2981A*                                     | 2      | A buffer for common anode sourcing,<br/>or can maybe be explained as to control the color of the 7 segments and whether those should be lighted from the signal 74HC595 gave              |
| MAX7219                                       | 1      | Matrix display driving<br/>!!!***TODO: Confirm the pin usage of ISET pin***!!!                                                                                                            |
| *Logic level shifter* **                      | 1      | *4* channel 3.3V to 5V logic level shifter for TPIC6B595 and MAX7219 *to be confirmed*                                                                                                    |
| **Passives**                                  |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 10Ω resistor array                            | 4      | Independent type (B-type) (4 resistors per SIP)<br/>2 for the first 4 segment displays in the time section, and 2 for last 2 segment displays in the time section and the date section    |
| 300Ω resistor array                           | 3      | Independent type (B-type) (4 resistors per SIP)<br/>For the debug bar eariler said<br/>Feel free to use normal 300Ω resistor ×10. I use array simply because I had it on hand.            |
| 130Ω resistor                                 | 2      | For DPs in [2 sets](./Schematic/wDark/DigitalWiFiClock.svg) of segment displays                                                                                                           |
| ***TODO: 10k?*** Ω resistor                   | 1      | For the ISET pin in MAX7219 to determine the current for matrix display                                                                                                                   |
| ***TODO: 10~100*** μF electrolytic capacitors | 1      | Connect it to the power supply                                                                                                                                                            |
| 0.1μF ceramic capacitors                      | 8      | Connect it to the power source of Raspberry Pi Pico 2 W and every ICs                                                                                                                     |
| **Production Materials**                      |        |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 20x30cm Double-sided FR-4 Perfboard           | 1      | The main carrier.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| DIP-16 IC Sockets                             | 2      | 74HC595                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| DIP-18 IC Sockets                             | 2      | UDN2981A                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DIP-20 IC Sockets                             | 2      | TPIC6B595                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DIP-24 IC Sockets                             | 1      | MAX7219                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 0.5mm tinned copper wire                      |        | Routing                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| 0.35mm solid core wire                        |        | Routing and jumps<br/>Used simply because I had it on hand. Feel free to use 0.5mm ones, and that would be even better                                                                    |
| 0.8MM tinned copper wire                      |        | Main power supply                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Solder                                        |        | Why don't you need?                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Soldering iron                                | 1      | Why don't you need?<br/>BTW I'm using a FNISRI HS-01 and setted it to 370°C                                                                                                               |

*74HC595 --Signal--> UDN2981A --Power--> The common node that needs to be controlled
** TODO: To be determine the actual model

---

#### Wrote with MicroPython

Normally I'm a C++ fan, but I want to develop it quickly, and trying MicroPython out of curiosity

---

Not sure if you're concern about it or not, but everything is made by Taiwanese, not Chinese. Feel free to use it ^_<
